README.md, before:

#Robot

Robot is a Robot replica simulator that moves on a tabletop, of the dimensions 5 units x 5 units.
for more details check the specification document.


#Installing

This app can be in multiple waysas explained below:

If you have [Git](http://git-scm.com/downloads), you can clone the project from [Git](http://git-scm.com/downloads) using below steps:
   
    git clone https://github.com/vinaykumarkas/Robot.git 
    cd Robot
    bundle install

	Or use "Clone to Desktop" button on http://github.com/vinaykumarkas/Robot instead of git clone https://github.com/vinaykumarkas/Robot.git 
	
If you dont have [Git](http://git-scm.com/downloads), you can Download the project using "Download ZIP" button from http://github.com/vinaykumarkas/Robot


####Note
Ensure you have [Ruby 1.9.3](http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/) or [RVM](https://rvm.io/rvm/install/) installed on your computer.


#Testing
Once installation is completed using above steps, you can test the application using the Spec tests that are included as part of application testing framework.
You can execute all the tests by using rake:
	
	CD to Robot folder (project root folder)
	$
	$ rake


#Running

Below are the steps that specify how to execute the Robot program.

### Commanding Robot interactively
	
	$ ruby lib/robot_replica.rb
	Please command the Robot:
	PLACE 0,0,NORTH
	MOVE
	REPORT
	0,1,NORTH
	MOVE
	MOVE
	MOVE
	REPORT
	0,4,NORTH
	MOVE
	MOVE command ignored because robot may fall off the tabletop
	EXIT
	Exiting the Robot program .... Good Bye !!


##Commands

Listed below are the details of commands that can be used to move/command Robot Replica.

####PLACE
Place the robot on the table with co-ordinates X &Y and facing
	example:
	PLACE 1,2,EAST

valid facings:
	NORTH
	SOUTH
	EAST
	WEST

####LEFT
Robot turns left from the existing position
	command:
	LEFT

####RIGHT
Robot turns right from the existing position
	command:
	RIGHT

####REPORT
Displays the position of the Robot and Orientation
	example:
	REPORT (issue this command)
	0.4.NORTH (will display this)

####EXIT
Aborts the execution of the program
	command:
	EXIT (issue this command)
	Exiting the Robot program .... Good Bye !! (will return this message and exit execution)

Commit message:

Updated README with instructions for executing with file as input.

README.md, after:

#Robot

Robot is a Robot replica simulator that moves on a tabletop, of the dimensions 5 units x 5 units.
for more details check the specification document.


#Installing

This app can be in multiple waysas explained below:

If you have [Git](http://git-scm.com/downloads), you can clone the project from [Git](http://git-scm.com/downloads) using below steps:
   
    git clone https://github.com/vinaykumarkas/Robot.git 
    cd Robot
    bundle install

	Or use "Clone to Desktop" button on http://github.com/vinaykumarkas/Robot instead of git clone https://github.com/vinaykumarkas/Robot.git 
	
If you dont have [Git](http://git-scm.com/downloads), you can Download the project using "Download ZIP" button from http://github.com/vinaykumarkas/Robot


####Note
Ensure you have [Ruby 1.9.3](http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/) or [RVM](https://rvm.io/rvm/install/) installed on your computer.


#Testing
Once installation is completed using above steps, you can test the application using the Spec tests that are included as part of application testing framework.

* You can execute all the tests by using rake:
	
	CD to Robot folder (project root folder)
	$
	$ rake

* You can execute each Spec class using below command:
	
	CD to spec folder (project root folder)
	$
	$ rspec robot_spec.rb
	...............

	Finished in 0.014 seconds (files took 0.40104 seconds to load)
	15 examples, 0 failures

#Running

Below are the steps that specify how to execute the Robot program.

###Commanding Robot interactively
	
	$ ruby lib/robot_replica.rb
	Please command the Robot:
	PLACE 0,0,NORTH
	MOVE
	REPORT
	0,1,NORTH
	MOVE
	MOVE
	MOVE
	REPORT
	0,4,NORTH
	MOVE
	MOVE command ignored because robot may fall off the tabletop
	EXIT
	Exiting the Robot program .... Good Bye !!

###Commanding Robot with list of commands from file
Commands can also be executed from a file. List all the commands that has to be executed in a TXT file (one command for a line) and input this file to the robot replica class as given below
	
	example:
	If commands are listed in commands.txt
	$
	$ cat commands.txt | lib/robot_replica.rb
	

##Commands

Listed below are the details of commands that can be used to move/command Robot Replica.

####PLACE
Place the robot on the table with co-ordinates X &Y and facing
	example:
	PLACE 1,2,EAST

valid facings:
	NORTH
	SOUTH
	EAST
	WEST

####LEFT
Robot turns left from the existing position
	command:
	LEFT

####RIGHT
Robot turns right from the existing position
	command:
	RIGHT

####REPORT
Displays the position of the Robot and Orientation
	example:
	REPORT (issue this command)
	0.4.NORTH (will display this)

####EXIT
Aborts the execution of the program
	command:
	EXIT (issue this command)
	Exiting the Robot program .... Good Bye !! (will return this message and exit execution)
